---
layout:         post
title:          "Straying Off Course"
date:           2014-02-05 22:19:35
categories:     blog
tags:           personal
---

[github]:     https://github.com
[jekyll]:     http://jekyllrb.com/
[markdown]:   http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
[compass]:    http://compass-style.org/

There comes a point in time when you realize that you have lost sight of what you set out to do.

When I first decided to host a personal website, I intended it to be a place where I could post my work and relay my thoughts (to no one in particular).

This was soon lost to me as I started going through iterations upon iterations of different layouts and designs. As I was redesigning everything, no content was being put out. No words were being said. Nothing was being done. It was ridiculous.

I had forgotten what I wanted to do with all of this.

At the time, I was subscribed to a bunch of different sites that offered sources of design inspiration. At times, I thought,

> "Whoa, that's super cool! Maybe I should put that here and that over there."

This was a problem. I was trying to be too trendy. These gimmicky elements I was trying to replicate served no purpose with respect to my objective. I unsubscribed from these sites and I instantly felt a burden being lifted. It was information, or rather, inspiration overload. Don't get me wrong, it's good to stay up to date with the current trends, but what I had going was too much.

So I started everything from scratch (this wasn't entirely true). Going back to what I first intended to do, this was:

1. Blog
2. Display my work

I was familar with Wordpress and started to use that to manage my content. While I ended up making a layout for myself, the CMS as a whole was **way** too bloated. There were too many things that I didn't need.

Eventually, it turned into what it is now and I can thank [GitHub][github] for this. I have been lurking around on the site trying to contribute to open source projects where I can and found that Jekyll - a parsing engine that powers GitHub Pages, encompasses everything that I need.

This very simple, very plain, and very functional site was built with:

* [Jekyll][jekyll] - a blog-aware, static site generator;
* [Markdown][markdown] - a text-to-HTML conversion tool I use to produce these posts;
* [Compass][compass] - a framework built on top of SASS

I don't need too much to do what I originally wanted to do and these do it all extremely well. Maybe I will look towards other technologies later, but now is not the time.

###### Until then, I aim to stay on track and do what I set out to do: share and create.